# Changelog

**Beta** releases are not listed. Changes for beta releases are included in the next full release. Current changes are listed in the top **Unreleased** section.

## Version 0.12

### New features and feature changes
- Create repository out of current directory
    - `gin create --here` will create a new repository on the remote server and initialise the current working directory with the appropriate remotes and annex configuration.
- JSON output: Most commands now support the `--json` flag for JSON formatted output.
- The location for configuration files has changed on all platforms. Platform specific locations are now used. On first run, the client looks for files in the old configuration directories and transfers them to the new location if necessary.
- If a command requires login and the user is not logged in, instead of simply printing an informative message, the user is prompted for login (unless `--json` is specified).
- Local (in-repo) config file can only be used to specify annex selection. In other words, only the `annex.minsize` and `annex.excludes` is used. All other options are read from the global and default configurations.
- The local (in-repo) configuration file is never checked into annex, regardless of annex minsize rules.
- The local config file can only be used for `annex.minsize` and `annex.excludes` options. All other options are ignored.
- Repository listing function fix:
    - `gin repos` now lists only the logged in user's repositories.
    - `gin repos --all` lists the logged in user's repositories and all other repositories in which they are a member.
    - `gin repos --shared` lists only the repositories in which the user is a member.
- Repository listings now provide more information if available.

### File operation and file transfer progress output
- File operations such as `lock`, `unlock`, and `remove-content` now provide per-file output on whether the operation was successful or not. The output prints per line as the operation finishes for each file.
- File transfers during `upload`, `download`, and `get-content` show transfer rates and percentage complete.
- `gin upload` without an argument no longer warns about the lack of file specification. Previously the warning was meant to inform the user that changes (metadata) are uploaded but no new files. The behaviour of the command (what is updated in the index and what is uploaded) is now clear due to the output progress and success or failure messages printed by the command and the warning message would probably lead to confusion. Note also that the behaviour of the command has changed slightly. New content will be uploaded for files that are already being tracked.

### Bug fixes
- More flexible version checking for git-annex: Handles more types of version string formats.

### Relevant PRs
- #120: `gin create --here`
- #123: File transfer progress output
- #124: Fix for version check
- #126: JSON output for `gin ls`
- #127: Bug fix for file locking when performing download
- #131: Bug fixes for Windows and file query routines
- #135: Platform-specific config and log directories
- #137: Bug fixes and login prompt
- #141: Local config changes: Only annex filtering
- #148: Error handling and messages
- #149: New repository listing command
- #150: Fixes to repos command and error messages
- #153: Minor tweak of `gin repos --json output`

### Known issues
- Some error conditions are not reported properly. In these cases, a command may fail with "unknown error" or in worse cases, appear to succeed without providing information about failure.
    - It is known that the latter will occur when performing an `upload` while there are changes on the server that have not been downloaded. The command will add/lock all local files, will not upload any content, and exit successfully. The occurrence of this can be determined by the lack of upload progress.

## Version 0.11

- The client now supports local, per-repo configuration files. Options specified in a file called `config.yml` in the root of a repository will override options from the global and default configurations.
- Fixed issue where some git implementations would continuously try to use the user's key instead of the one generated by gin (macOS).
- Fixed issue which caused very slow responses on Windows when repositories got too big.

## Version 0.10

- Minor bug fixes and improvements.
- Improved the performance of `gin ls` when querying specific files.

## Version 0.9

- Check files into git: When adding files (via `gin upload`) the client will now check small files (smaller than 10 MiB by default) into git instead of annex. This threshold can be configured in the config file. Additionally, file patterns (globs) can be specified for exclusion from annex. Any files that match a pattern or is below the *small file* threshold, will be checked into git rather than the annex.
    - This behaviour also works in direct mode.
- SSH keys on login: Instead of generating temporary SSH keys for each transaction, a single key pair is created when a user logs in and is deleted when they log out.
- Annex version check: The client will no longer work if it cannot find a git-annex binary, or its version is too old (current minimum version: 6.20160126)

## Version 0.8

- The `download` command now only retrieves changes in metadata and does not retrieve the content of files by default. There are now two ways to download file content:
    - `gin download --content` synchronises all changes that were made remotely to the local repository and downloads the content of **all** files.
    - `gin get-content <filenames>` does not update the local repository to reflect remote changes, but downloads the content of all files specified.
- The `get-content` command is a **new command** introduced in version 0.8.
- The `upload` command does not add any new changes to the repository when no arguments are specified. In order to upload all changes under the current working directory, a period `.` should be specified.

## Version 0.7

- **Content handling**:
    - `gin upload` accepts files or directories as arguments and only commits and uploads the specified files.
    - `gin download` retrieves the content for placeholder files, or recursively downloads files if a directory is specified.
    - `gin rmc` removes the content from local files, leaving only placeholders, if the content can be confirmed to be available on at least one other remote.
- **New commands: lock and unlock**: Starting with version 0.7, files are locked by default and need to be unlocked for editing (Linux and macOS only).

## Version 0.6

- The client secret can now be set in the configuration file. If not set, the secret defaults to the secret for the G-Node GIN server.

## Version 0.5

- New command: `gin ls`
    - Lists files and their status. See `gin help ls` for details and status codes.
- New behaviour for `gin repos`
    - See `gin help repos` for details
- `gin create` now automatically performs a `gin get`
- More informative error messages
- Plenty of bug fixes

## Version 0.4

- Adds better help text.
- Includes complete version string, including commit hash, for better troubleshooting.
- See the wiki downloads page for details on which package to download.
